# About-Me

“Data is the new oil……Data is a precious thing and will last longer than systems themselves.” - Tim Berners-Lee

Introduction: Since childhood I have been fascinated by numbers and what it can do. For example, how my parents income and spending would affect our education, household expenses, travel, food and other miscellaneous expenditure. As I grew older I was wonder-stuck at how mathematics played an important role in everyone’s life. Since then the passion towards data or number crunching kept increasing. When I was at graduate college I was amazed how mathematical economic models drive the country’s GDP rate, interest rates, inflation and many other factors. Once I finished college and entered the corporate world I saw that important decisions were made based on data collected. For eg: Annual employee surveys to determine how the company is doing, different data driven models to assess risk management etc. All these factors drove me to pursue my career and academics in data science and business analytics.

College Life: During my 12th grade at SSSLS Pre-University college, my specialization was in commerce which included topics like accounting, statistics, economics and business studies which set the foundation for my graduate studies. This is when applications of numbers and data to real world problems emerged.

University Life: I have done my graduate studies in Bachelor of Arts (Hons) in Economics from Sri Sathya Sai University (formerly known as Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Learning) at Andhra Pradesh, India. Core subjects I studied were Macroeconomics, Microeconomics, Mathematical and Statistical Economics as part of Quantitative methods, Computer applications for economics, public finance and fiscal policies etc. My GPA scores were 4.53 out of 5.00 which came as a “distinction”. During my stint here at college, I was exposed to data analysis and different predictive economic model-building using MS Excel and Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS). I had the golden opportunity of participating in National Economic Conference on “Economic Growth with Equity and Stability” at Prasanthi Nilayam, SSSIHL, August 2006 chaired by Y.V.Reddy (Former Governor of RBI). Also participated in National Conference on “Energy and Economic Growth: The Emerging Prospects and Policies” at Prasanthi Nilayam, SSSIHL, December 2008 chaired by Subbarao (Former Governor of RBI). 

Extra-curricular Activities & Volunteer Work: Volunteered for ‘Grama Seva’ campaign as part of college social responsibility conducted by Sri Sathya Sai University to distribute food and clothes to nearly 1 lakh poverty-stricken people in 700 villages across Ananthpur District, Andhra Pradesh for three consecutive years (2005-2008). I was part of the music group in college apart from being a member of the college library committee and public speaking forum.

Work Experience: After my graduate studies I started my professional career as an Analyst at a multinational custodian bank, Northern Trust Corporation working in UK Asset Management team. Key responsibilities were liaising with offshore staff and fund managers in UK to perform monthly reconciliation reports for clients using MS Excel. This helped me to learn different MIS reporting techniques. After a long tenure of 9 years, I moved on to join Standard Chartered Bank as an Associate Manager currently working in Financial Crime Surveillance Operations team. I was responsible in managing a team of 10 staffs whom I would mentor and guide. I liaised with FCC data teams to Extract, Load and Transform (ETL) data for monthly productivity reports and KPI dashboards. I spearheaded Request for Information (RFI) project to streamline and automate client and stakeholders queries in liaison with Change Management and Automation teams which resulted in approximately 3 FTE (Full Time Employee) reductions with more than 80% accuracy. Value added projects like these keeps me motivated at work. 

Career Objectives: I believe learning is a continuous variable which is not constant. Hence I am currently pursuing my Post Graduate program in Data Science and Business Analytics from McCombs School of Business, University of Texas – Austin in collaboration with Great Lakes Institute of Management, India. This course has helped me gain a new prospective towards data and science. I have been working on different domain projects using Python programming. Core topics cover SQL, advanced statistics, data mining, predictive modeling, time series forecasting, machine learning, data visualization using Tableau and optimization techniques. Projects cover varied domain exposure like marketing and retail analytics, web and social media analytics, finance and risk analytics and supply chain and logistics analytics to name a few. I will be completing my PG by April-2022.

According to recent study, ML and AI are going to be the new norm in future starting from self-driving cars to bitcoins and crypto currencies. My long term career goal is to work as a data scientist which will provide value added business insights. 
